Redis cloud (ECOINT-5) (#2383)
DataDog/integrations-extras: redis_cloud/README.md

The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis Cloud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations. For [Redis Enterprise][2], see the [Datadog Redis Enterprise integration][3].

The integration provides metrics for three critical cluster components: databases, nodes, and shards, via a Datadog Agent. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog. You can use this information to understand the overall health of your Redis Cloud clusters, diagnose application performance issues, and prevent downtime.

For a full list of supported metrics, see the **Metrics** section below.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
 - in Datadog v6
   ```shell
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
 - in Datadog v7   
   ```shell
   agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
   

> 2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][4] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure the integration by setting `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's primary node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][4] for more information.
```

Author: we use the term 'master' and not 'primary.

3. [Restart][5] the Agent.

### Configuration

Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. See the [example][4]. Leave `tls_verify` set to false.

There are two optional parameters: `extra_metrics` and `excluded_metrics`, as noted in the example configuration file.

> The extra_metrics parameter takes a list of metric groups. The following are the available groups: RDSC.REPLICATION, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extra_metrics parameter takes a list of metric groups. The following groups are available: RDSC.REPLICATION, 
```

RDSC.LISTENER, RDSC.PROXY, RDSC.BIGSTORE, RDSC.FLASH, RDSC.SHARDREPL. The default metrics groups RDSC.NODE, 
RDSC.DATABASE, and RDSC.SHARD are automatically inserted by the integration.

> The exclude_metrics parameter takes a list of individual metrics to exclude, meaning that this information will not be 
> passed on to Datadog. The individual metrics should be stripped of their prefix, e.g., 'rdsc.bdb_up' would 
> become 'bdb_up'. The full list of metrics is available on the 'Data Collected' tab of the integration page, or via the link in the [Metrics](#metrics) section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exclude_metrics` parameter takes a list of individual metrics to exclude, meaning that this information is not  
passed on to Datadog. The individual metrics should be stripped of their prefix, meaning that 'rdsc.bdb_up'  
becomes 'bdb_up'. The full list of metrics is available on the 'Data Collected' tab of the integration page, and in the [Metrics](#metrics) section. 
```

The following extra groups use the associated prefixes, which can be used to search for individual metrics on 

> the data collected page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Data Collected page.
```

| Group           | Prefix                    | Notes                                                |
|-----------------|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|

> | RDSC.NODE       | rdsc.node_                | This will return bigstore and flash metrics as well  |
> | RDSC.DATABASE   | rdsc.bdb_                 | This will return replication metrics as well         |
> | RDSC.SHARD      | rdsc.redis_               | This will return shard replication metrics as well   |
> | RDSC.REPLCATION | rdsc.bdb_crdt_            |                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| RDSC.NODE       | rdsc.node_                | This returns bigstore and flash metrics as well.  |
| RDSC.DATABASE   | rdsc.bdb_                 | This returns replication metrics as well.         |
| RDSC.SHARD      | rdsc.redis_               | This returns shard replication metrics as well.   |
| RDSC.REPLCATION | rdsc.bdb_crdt_            |                                                      |
```

| RDSC.REPLCATION | rdsc.bdb_replicaof_       |                                                      |
| RDSC.SHARDREPL  | rdsc.redis_crdt_          |                                                      |
| RDSC.PROXY      | rdsc.dmcproxy_            |                                                      |
| RDSC.LISTENER   | rdsc.listener_            |                                                      |
| RDSC.BIGSTORE   | rdsc.node_bigstore_       |                                                      |

> | RDSC.FLASH      | rdsc.node_available_flash | All flash metrics are of the form: rdsc.node_*_flash |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| RDSC.FLASH      | rdsc.node_available_flash | All flash metrics are of the form: rdsc.node_*_flash. |
```

# Agent Check: Redis Cloud

## Overview

Redis is a versatile and fast data store that supports strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It also offers programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability features, as well as Redis Stack for modern data models and processing engines. 

The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis Cloud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations, for that see the separate Redis Enterprise integration.

> This integration provides metrics for databases, nodes, and shards), making it easier to detect problems before they become critical. 

Author: done

> This integration provides metrics for databases, nodes, and shards), making it easier to detect problems before they become critical. 

Reviewer 2: @j8-redis can you be specific? If the sentence in 9 is in Datadog then something like: 

This integration sends metrics for databases, nodes, and shards) to Datadog making it easier to detect problems before they become critical.

> This integration provides metrics for databases, nodes, and shards), making it easier to detect problems before they become critical. 

Author: it currently reads like this:

The integration provides metrics for three critical cluster components: databases, nodes, and shards, via a Datadog Agent. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
   ```shell
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
   

> 2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][2] for mor information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][2] for more information.
```

Author: fixed

# Agent Check: Redis Cloud

## Overview

Redis is a versatile and fast data store that supports strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It also offers programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability features, as well as Redis Stack for modern data models and processing engines. 

> The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis CLoud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations, for that see the separate Redis Enterprise integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis CLoud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations, for that see the separate Redis Enterprise integration.
```

Author: changed and fixed CLoud

> This integration provides metrics for three critical aspects of a cluster; database, node, and shard, and makes it easier to detect problems before they become critical. For a full list see the 'Metrics' section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
This integration provides metrics for databases, nodes, and shards), making it easier to detect problems before they become critical. 
```

Author: we've modified this paragraph to look like the one for redis_enterprise, which was already approved.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
   ```shell
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
   

> 2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Integration][2] for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][2] for more information.
```

> 3. [Restart][3] the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Restart][3] the Agent.
```

### Configuration

> Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. See the [example][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. For an example, see the [`conf.yaml.example` file][4].
```

### Validation

1. Ensure you can ping the machine, particularly in a cloud environment. Run `wget --no-check-certificate <endpoint>` or `curl -k <endpoint>` to ensure that you can receive metrics.

> 2. Check the [status][5] of the Datadog agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check the [status][5] of the Datadog Agent.
```

## Data Collected

> The current release gathers all metrics for databases, nodes, and shard.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Are you proposing that we leave the 'Data Collected' section empty, or that we remove it altogether?

Author: we've changed this to look like the equivalent section from redis_enterprise, which was already approved

# Agent Check: Redis Cloud

## Overview

Redis is a fast, versatile data store that supports a variety of data structures, including strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It also offers programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability. The community edition of Redis adds additional data models and capabilities, which include vector search, probabilistic data structures, JSON support, and full-text search.

> The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis Cloud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations, for that see the separate Redis Enterprise integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis Cloud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations. For Redis Enterprise, see the Datadog Redis Enterprise integration.
```

For a full list of supported metrics, see the **Metrics** section below.

## Setup

### Installation

1. Run the following command to install the Agent integration:
 - in Datadog v6
   ```shell
   datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
 - in Datadog v7   
   ```shell
   agent integration install -t datadog-redis_cloud==1.0.0
   ```
   
2. Configure the integration by setting the `openmetrics_endpoint` to your cluster's master node. See [Getting Started with Integrations][4] for more information.

3. [Restart][5] the Agent.

### Configuration

Set the `openmetrics_endpoint` to point to your cluster. For an example, see the [`conf.yaml.example` file][6].

### Validation

1. Ensure you can ping the machine, particularly in a cloud environment. Run `wget --no-check-certificate <endpoint>` or `curl -k <endpoint>` to ensure that you can receive metrics.

2. Check the [status][7] of the Datadog Agent.

## Data Collected

> The current release gathers all metrics for databases, nodes, and shards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis Cloud integration gathers all metrics for databases, nodes, and shards.
```

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][8] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

> Redis Cloud does not include any service checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis Cloud integration does not include any service checks.
```

### Events

> Redis Cloud does not include any events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis Cloud integration does not include any events.
```

# Agent Check: Redis Cloud

## Overview

Redis is a fast, versatile data store that supports a variety of data structures, including strings, hashes, lists, sets, streams, and more. It also offers programmability, extensibility, persistence, clustering, and high availability. The community edition of Redis adds additional data models and capabilities, which include vector search, probabilistic data structures, JSON support, and full-text search.

The [Redis Cloud][1] integration is intended for use with Redis Cloud deployments of Redis software. It is not for use with Redis Enterprise installations. For [Redis Enterprise][2], see the [Datadog Redis Enterprise integration][3].

> The integration provides metrics for three critical cluster components: databases, nodes, and shards, via a Datadog Agent. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog.
> You can use this information to understand the overall health of your Redis Cloud clusters, diagnose application performance issues, and prevent downtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The integration provides metrics for three critical cluster components: databases, nodes, and shards, via a Datadog Agent. This allows you to monitor database throughput, memory utilization, CPU usage, connection counts, replication health, and a variety of additional metrics within Datadog. You can use this information to understand the overall health of your Redis Cloud clusters, diagnose application performance issues, and prevent downtime.
```
